## Adding changes from the remote repository to the local repository

To only download the latest changes from the origin without merging them with the local files, use the following command:

```bash
git fetch
```

Use the following command to download the most recent changes and merge them with the local files:

```bash
git pull
```

Use the following command to both download the most latest modifications and rebase the local changes on the remote commit history:

```bash
git pull --rebase
```

## Differences between fetch and pull

* Fetch will not change your files, but pull may.
* Fetch retrieves the updates from the remote without modifying your files. It is your responsibility to integrate the updates into your files.

One method is to simply use the merge command after fetching:

```bash
git fetch
git merge
```
Another method is to discard any uncommitted local modifications and replace your files with the remote version of the current branch:

```bash
git fetch
git reset --hard origin/branch_name 
```

Make sure to first commit any work-in-progress!
## Merging vs rebasing

* Merging creates a merge commit with all changes (all the commits from the merged branch are squashed into one).
* Rebasing moves all commits on the tip of the other branch (preserve the git history).

## Merge conflicts

Merge conflicts occur when two changes are present in the same location in the same file. Then you have to solve the conflict manually.
Furthermore, you may consider to always merge commits manually, since even though two edits are physically separated in the file, they might still be conceptually at odds.

If merge conflicts occur, read the super-helpful terminal advice and continue as follows:

1. Use `git diff` to resolve the merge conflicts
2. Use `git rebase --continue`
3. Repeat until all issues are resolved

## Mergetool

Git includes a mergetool command that launches an editor to help you solve merge conflicts.
By default, it will launch a Vim-based tool named Vimdiff.
You can, however, change to one of the numerous supported editors.
To get a list of supported editors, use:

```bash
git mergetool --tool-help
```

Some of the popular tools include:

* kdiff3
* meld
* tortoisemerge

To switch to other tool (meld in this example), use:

```bash
git config --global merge.tool meld
```

When a merge conflict occurs, just type the following to open your preferred editor:

```bash
git mergetool
```
You will now see three columns for each file with conflicts.
The local version of the file is on the left, the remote version is on the right, and the resultant file is in the center.
Any adjustments you want to accept or reject must be made in the center column.
After you've finished, save the file and move on to the next.

After successfully finishing the operation, you may notice the appearance of new .orig files.
These are backup files generated by Git in the event of a merge conflict.
To get rid of them, use:

```bash
git clean -i
```

If you don't want to create those backups, use:

```Git
git config --global mergetool.keepBackup false
```

## How to merge with master?
Suppose you spent some time working on a new branch named <code>feature_branch</code> before deciding to merge your updates with the master.
You may do it by following these steps: 

```bash
git checkout master
git pull origin master
git merge feature_branch
```

## Sending changes from the local repository to the remote

To push local changes to the origin, use the following command:

```bash
git push origin branch_name
```

It is important to note that this command will only function if there are no new commits on the remote since the last time the local repository was updated.
If there are new commits on the remote, you will need to first incorporate them into your local repository by using git pull, git fetch, or git rebase.
Pushing a new branch to the remote repository

To push a new local branch to the remote repository, use the following command:

```bash
git push -u origin branch_name
```

This will create a new branch on the remote repository and set up a tracking connection between the local and remote branches.
Force pushing to the remote repository

In some cases, you may need to overwrite the remote repository with your local changes.
For example, if you have made a mistake and need to revert to a previous commit, you can use git push with the --force flag:

```bash
git push --force origin branch_name
```

This will overwrite the remote repository with your local repository, discarding any commits that were made on the remote since the last time you updated your local repository.
Use caution when using this flag, as it can cause data loss on the remote repository.

## Updating a forked repository

If you have forked a repository and want to sync your local repository with the upstream repository, you can use the following commands:

```bash
git fetch upstream
git merge upstream/master
```

This will download the latest commits from the upstream repository and merge them into your local repository.
You can then push the updated local repository to your fork on the remote repository.

```bash
git push origin
```

Alternatively, you can use git pull to perform the fetch and merge in one step:

```bash
git pull upstream master
```

## Solving merge conflicts after a pull request

If you have made a pull request and the upstream maintainer has requested changes, you may need to solve merge conflicts after pulling the updated upstream repository.
To do this, first fetch the upstream repository:

```bash
git fetch upstream
```

Then switch to your local branch and use git rebase to incorporate the upstream changes:

```bash
git checkout branch_name
git rebase upstream/branch_name
```

If there are merge conflicts, you will need to resolve them as described above.
Once the conflicts have been resolved, use git push to update the remote repository with the resolved changes:

```bash
git push origin branch_name --force
```

Note that you may need to use the --force flag if you have made commits on the remote repository since the last time you updated your local repository.
